### 날짜:   2023-02-07-Tue 16:03
#### 키워드: #건강/식단 
-----
>**복합탄수보다 과일이 몸에 더 좋음**

# 내 생각
일단 나는 몇년 전부터 식단 공부를 통해서 각종 건강 관련 미신들이 얼마나 나의 건강을 해쳤는지 공부했고, 이제 웬만한 음식에 대해서는 "올바른 지식과 관점"을 갖게 되었다고 믿고 있었다. (예-콜레스테롤 수치에 관련된 미신들, 포화지방과 불포화지방에 관련된 미신들, 소금에 관련된 미신들, 야채에 관련된 미신들 등... 셀 수 없다.)
그런데 이 글은 그간 내가 단순하게 "느낌"으로 여전히 갖고 있었던 또다른 미신, "복합탄수가 단순당보다 몸에 더 좋을 것이다" 를 완전히 파괴한다. 요약하자면 ==단순당이 복합당보다 살이 덜찌고 건강에 더 좋으며, 우리 몸에 꼭 필요하다==는 것. 특히 포도당보다 과당에 초점을 맞춘다. 하루에 오렌지주스 한컵과 우유 두컵을 마셔서 필요한 과당을 채우라는 조언은 약간 충격적이기까지 했다. 그냥 건강 관련된 정보는 무조건 "상식"과는 반대로 생각하면 대충 맞는 것 같다는 생각까지 든다.

물론 여기서도 몇가지 의문이 든다. 어떤 음식에도 포도당"만" 들어있거나, 과당"만", 혹은 복합탄수"만" 들어있진 않기 때문이다. Sugar issues 끝부분에도 나오듯, 흔히 시판 가공식품에 들어있는 액상과당에는 과당보다 복합탄수가 더 많이 들어있는 것처럼.
그리고 내 경험상으로도 그렇고 애초에 너무 많은 탄수화물 섭취는 건강에 매우 좋지 않다는 사실은 자명하다. 따라서 복합당 섭취를 더 줄이고, 꿀과 과일 섭취를 좀더 늘리는 것이 좋겠다는 결론 정도로 마무리한다. 그간 복합당을 위주로 먹었는데, 이제 단순당 위주로 옮겨가야겠다.

- 출처- [Glucose and sucrose for diabetes.](http://raypeat.com/articles/articles/sugar-issues.shtml)

# Sugar issues 요약
## 짧은 요약
Fructose is a form of sugar that can be interchanged with glucose in energy production. Fructose is also the main sugar involved in reproduction and during fetal development. It has been suggested that fructose helps maintain ATP and oxidative state during development in low-oxygen environments. Fructose is also known to accelerate the oxidation of ethanol, reducing oxidative damage. It also protects against oxidative stress and supports capillary integrity. In addition, fructose protects against damage from endotoxin. In cancer, the ability to oxidize pyruvic acid and glucose is lost, leading to a disturbed redox balance that favors growth and cell division.
Many experiments have found that sucrose, particularly its fructose component, is less fattening than starch or glucose and has been recommended for treating shock, surgery, or infection. Fructose can also reduce hyperglycemia, increase antioxidant status, and decrease oxidative and inflammatory stress. On the other hand, some studies argue that fructose increases lipid peroxidation, although this has been disputed by others.

The glycemic index is a measurement of how quickly glucose is released into the bloodstream. Starch has a high glycemic index and quickly releases glucose, leading to increased insulin production, which in turn stimulates fat synthesis. Many animal studies have shown that if starch or glucose is consumed with polyunsaturated fats, which inhibit its oxidation, it can lead to more fat storage. One study fed rats diets consisting of 68% carbohydrates (starch, sucrose, fructose and glucose), 12% fat, and 20% protein. The fat pad weight was greatest in the fructose and starch group and least in the sucrose group. The study showed that fructose protected against the potentially harmful effects of insulin. The increased consumption of added fats and starch, not fructose, may be responsible for the rise of obesity and diabetes in recent years. Stress hormones inhibit sugar metabolism and sugar is essential for brain development. Honey, which contains both fructose and glucose, has been shown to reduce inflammation markers and triglycerides.

## 인용포함 긴요약
Obesity, especially a fat waist, and all its associated health problems, are said by some doctors to be the result of eating too much sugar, especially fructose. (Starch is the only common carbohydrate that contains no fructose.) Obesity is associated not only with diabetes or insulin resistance, but also with atheroslcerosis and heart disease, high blood pressure, generalized inflammation, arthritis, depression, risk of dementia, and cancer.

Besides being one of the forms of sugar involved in ordinary energy production, interchangeable with glucose, fructose has some special functions, that aren't as well performed by glucose. It is the main sugar involved in reproduction, in the seminal fluid and intrauterine fluid, and in the developing fetus. After these crucial stages of life are past, glucose becomes the primary molecular source of energy, except when the system is under stress. It has been suggested (Jauniaux, et al., 2005) that the predominance of fructose rather than glucose in the embryo's environment helps to maintain ATP and the oxidative state (cellular redox potential) during development in the low-oxygen environment. The placenta turns glucose from the mother's blood into fructose, and the fructose in the mother's blood can pass through into the fetus, and although glucose can move back from the fetus into the mother's blood, fructose is unable to move in that direction, so a high concentration is maintained in the fluids around the fetus.

Fructose has been known for many years to accelerate the oxidation of ethanol (by about 80%). Oxygen consumption in the presence of ethanol is increased by fructose more than by glucose (Thieden and Lundquist, 1967). Besides removing the alcohol from the body more quickly, it prevents the oxidative damage, by maintaining or restoring the cell's redox balance, the relatively oxidized state of the NADH/NAD+, lactate/pyruvate, and GSH/GSSH systems. Although glucose has this stabilizing, pro-oxidative function in many situations, this is a general feature of fructose, sometimes allowing it to have the opposite effect of glucose on the cell's redox state. It seems to be largely this generalized shift of the cell's redox state towards oxidation that is behind the ability of a small amount of fructose to catalyze the more rapid oxidation of a large amount of glucose.

Besides protecting against the reductive stresses, fructose can also protect against the oxidative stress of increased hydrogen peroxide (Spasojevic, et al., 2009). Its metabolite, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, is even more effective as an antioxidant.

Keeping the metabolic rate high has many benefits, including the rapid renewal of cells and their components, such as cholesterol and other lipids, and proteins, which are always susceptible to damage from oxidants, but the high metabolic rate also tends to keep the redox system in the proper balance, reducing the rate of oxidative damage.

Endotoxin absorbed from the intestine is one of the ubiquitous stresses that tends to cause free radical damage. Fructose, probably more than glucose, is protective against damage from endotoxin.

Many stressors cause capillary leakage, allowing albumin and other blood components to enter extracellular spaces or to be lost in the urine, and this is a feature of diabetes, obesity, and a variety of inflammatory and degenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (Szekanecz and Koch, 2008; Ujiie, et al., 2003). Although the mechanism isn't understood, fructose supports capillary integrity; fructose feeding for 4 and 8 weeks caused a 56% and 51% reduction in capillary leakage, respectively (Chakir, et al., 1998; Plante, et al., 2003).

The ability of the mitochondria to oxidize pyruvic acid and glucose is characteristically lost to some degree in cancer. When this oxidation fails, the disturbed redox balance of the cell will usually lead to the cell's death, but if it can survive, this balance favors growth and cell division, rather than differentiated function. This was Otto Warburg's discovery, that was rejected by official medicine for 75 years.

Many studies have found that sucrose is less fattening than starch or glucose, that is, that more calories can be consumed without gaining weight. During exercise, the addition of fructose to glucose increases the oxidation of carbohydrate by about 50% (Jentjens and Jeukendrup, 2005). In another experiment, rats were fed either sucrose or Coca-Cola and Purina chow, and were allowed to eat as much as they wanted (Bukowiecki, et al, 1983). They consumed 50% more calories without gaining extra weight, relative to the standard diet. Ruzzin, et al. (2005) observed rats given a 10.5% or 35% sucrose solution, or water, and observed that the sucrose increased their energy consumption by about 15% without increasing weight gain. Macor, et al. (1990) found that glucose caused a smaller increase in metabolic rate in obese people than in normal weight people, but that fructose increased their metabolic rate as much as it did that of the normal weight people. Tappy, et al. (1993) saw a similar increase in heat production in obese people, relative to the effect of glucose. Brundin, et al. (1993) compared the effects of glucose and fructose in healthy people, and saw a greater oxygen consumption with fructose, and also an increase in the temperature of the blood, and a greater increase in carbon dioxide production.

These metabolic effects have led several groups to recommend the use of fructose for treating shock, the stress of surgery, or infection (e.g., Adolph, et al., 1995).

The commonly recommended alternative to sugar in the diet is starch, but many studies show that it produces all of the effects that are commonly ascribed to sucrose and fructose, for example hyperglycemia (Villaume, et al., 1984) and increased weight gain. The addition of fructose to glucose "can markedly reduce hyperglycemia during intraportal glucose infusion by increasing net hepatic glucose uptake even when insulin secretion is compromised" (Shiota, et al., 2005). "Fructose appears most effective in those normal individuals who have the poorest glucose tolerance" (Moore, et al., 2000).

When people were given a 300 calorie drink containing glucose, or fructose, or orange juice, those receiving the glucose had a large increase in oxidative and inflammatory stress (reactive oxygen species, and NF-kappaB binding), and those changes were absent in those receiving the fructose or orange juice (Ghanim, et al., 2007).

Several later studies show that fructose increases the excretion of phosphate in the urine, while decreasing the level in the serum. However, a common opinion is that it's only the phosphorylation of fructose, increasing the amount in cells, that causes the decrease in the serum; that could account for the momentary drop in serum phosphate during a fructose load, but--since there is only so much phosphate that can be bound to intracellular fructose--it can't account for the chronic depression of the serum phosphate on a continuing diet of fructose or sucrose.

Fructose affects the body's ability to retain other nutrients, including magnesium, copper, calcium, and other minerals. Comparing diets with 20% of the calories from fructose or from cornstarch, Holbrook, et al. (1989) concluded "The results indicate that dietary fructose enhances mineral balance." Ordinarily, things (such as thyroid and vitamin D) which improve the retention of magnesium and other nutrients are considered good, but the fructose mythology allows researchers to conclude, after finding an increased magnesium balance, with either 4% or 20% of energy from fructose (compared to cornstarch, bread, and rice), "that dietary fructose adversely affects macromineral homeostasis in humans." (Milne and Nielsen, 2000).

Another study compared the effects of a diet with plain water, or water containing 13% glucose, or sucrose, or fructose, or high fructose corn syrup on the properties of rats' bones: Bone mineral density and mineral content, and bone strength, and mineral balance. The largest differences were between animals drinking the glucose and the fructose solutions. The rats getting the glucose had reduced phosphorus in their bones, and more calcium in their urine, than the rats that got fructose. "The results suggested that glucose rather than fructose exerted more deleterious effects on mineral balance and bone" (Tsanzi, et al., 2008).

An older experiment compared two groups with an otherwise well balanced diet, lacking vitamin D, containing either 68% starch or 68% sucrose. A third group got the starch diet, but with added vitamin D. The rats on the vitamin D deficient starch diet had very low levels of calcium in their blood, and the calcium content of their bones was low, exactly what is expected with the vitamin D deficiency. However, the rats on the sucrose diet, also vitamin D deficient, had normal levels of calcium in their blood. The sucrose, unlike the starch, maintained claim homeostasis. A radioactive calcium tracer showed normal uptake by the bone, and also apparently normal bone development, although their bones were lighter than those receiving vitamin D.

(Thresher, et al., 2000), rats were fed diets with 68% carbohydrate, 12% fat (corn oil), and 20% protein. In one group the carbohydrate was starch (cornstarch and maltodextrin, with a glucose equivalence of 10%), and in other groups it was either 68% sucrose, or 34% fructose and 34% glucose, or 34% fructose and 34% starch. (An interesting oddity, fasting triglycerides were highest in the fructose+starch group.)

The weight of their fat pads (epididymal, retroperitoneal, and mesenteric) was greatest in the fructose+starch group, and least in the sucrose group. The starch group's fat was intermediate in weight between those of the sucrose and the fructose+glucose groups.

At the beginning of the experimental diet, the average weight of the animals was 213.1 grams. After five weeks, the animals in the fructose+glucose group gained 164 grams, those in the sucrose group gained 177 grams, and those in the starch group gained 199.2 grams. The animals ate as much of the diet as they wanted, and those in the sucrose group ate the least.

The purpose of their study was to see whether fructose causes "glucose intolerance" and "insulin resistance." Since insulin stimulates appetite (Chance, et al, 1986; Dulloo and Girardier, 1989; Czech, 1988; DiBattista, 1983; Sonoda, 1983; Godbole and York, 1978), and fat synthesis, the reduced food consumption and reduced weight gain show that fructose was protecting against these potentially harmful effects of insulin.

Much of the current concern about the dangers of fructose is focussed on the cornstarch-derived high fructose corn syrup, HFCS. Many studies assume that its composition is nearly all fructose and glucose. However, Wahjudi, et al. (2010) analyzed samples of it before and after hydrolyzing it in acid, to break down other carbohydrates present in it. They found that the carbohydrate content was several times higher than the listed values. It's especially interesting that so much of it is present in the form of starch-like materials.

Sucrose (and sometimes honey) is increasingly being used to reduce pain in newborns, for minor things such as injections (Guala, et al., 2001; Okan, et al., 2007; Anand, et al., 2005; Schoen and Fischell, 1991). It's also effective in adults. It acts by influencing a variety of nerve systems, and also reduces stress. Insulin is probably involved in sugar analgesia, as it is in inflammation, since it promotes entry of endorphins into the brain (Witt, et al., 2000).

An extracellular phosphorylated fructose metabolite, diphosphoglycerate, has an essential regulatory effect in the blood; another fructose metabolite, fructose diphosphate, can reduce mast cell histamine release and protect against oxidative and hypoxic injury and endotoxic shock, and it reduces the expression of the inflammation mediators TNF-alpha, IL-6, nitric oxide synthase, and the activation of NF-kappaB, among other protective effects, and its therapeutic value is known, but its relation to dietary sugars hasn't been investigated.

A daily diet that includes two quarts of milk and a quart of orange juice provides enough fructose and other sugars for general resistance to stress, but larger amounts of fruit juice, honey, or other sugars can protect against increased stress, and can reverse some of the established degenerative conditions.

Refined granulated sugar is extremely pure, but it lacks all of the essential nutrients, so it should be considered as a temporary therapeutic material, or as an occasional substitute when good fruit isn't available, or when available honey is allergenic.


# Glycemia, starch, and sugar in context 요약
The relationship between insulin and diabetes is complex and has been exaggerated due to the diabetes/insulin industry. Insulin only accounts for 8% of the insulin-like activity in the blood. ==Other factors like glucagon, cortisol, adrenalin, growth hormone and thyroid also affect blood sugar levels,== but these are not usually measured before a diagnosis of diabetes is made. Eating a large amount of protein without carbohydrate can lower blood sugar, leading to the release of adrenaline and cortisol which raise blood sugar and cause insulin resistance.

A belief that the promotion of "complex carbohydrates" as a key component of a healthy diet by dietitians, the USDA, and other organizations, was not scientifically justified. ==Eating "complex carbohydrates" can promote obesity and stimulate appetite, while eating sugar would have the opposite effect.==

Protein of the right kind, in the right amount, is essential for reducing stress. Gelatin, with its antiinflammatory amino acid balance, helps to regulate fat metabolism. 
Sugar, protein, and coconut oil protected mice against developing diabetes. The saturated fats of coconut oil are similar to those we synthesize ourselves from sugar. Saturated fats, and the polyunsaturated fats synthesized by plants, have very different effects on many important physiological processes. In every case I know about, the vegetable polyunsaturated fats have harmful effects on our physiology.


# Glucose and sucrose 요약
Diabetes is a condition characterized by elevated levels of glucose in the blood and has been known since ancient times. Homeopathic medicine supports the body's ability to heal itself, while allopathic medicine focuses on fighting the disease. In the 1940s, it was discovered that coconut oil protected against diabetes, while lipid emulsions blocked glucose oxidation and suppressed immunity. Recent research into stem cells has led to the possibility of regenerating the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas.
Sugar, including glucose and fructose, has been shown to have a positive effect on wound healing and the protection of cells in the body. It regulates cell communication, optimizes collagen and extracellular matrix synthesis, and can protect the beta cells from damage. Excess insulin can cause leakiness of blood vessels, but it is the lack of glucose rather than excess insulin that is harmful. Glucose oxidation produces more carbon dioxide and uses less oxygen than fatty acids, and the active thyroid hormone T3 supports glucose oxidation. A recent study found that glucose infusion can lead to the recovery of the pancreas and increased mass of beta cells. Insulin is only 8% of the insulin-like action in the serum, with potassium being the main other factor. Cellular activation can cause glucose absorption and oxidation, and the GABA system helps regulate blood sugar and acts as a survival and growth factor for cells.

### 참고자료
- [Glucose and sucrose for diabetes.](http://raypeat.com/articles/articles/sugar-issues.shtml)

### 연결문서
- [[]]

 

